---
layout: post
title:  "Lasagna"
date:   2024-04-12 09:41:59 +0000
categories: dinner
---
> ## Ingredients
>
> - 2 cups(300g) all-purpose flour
> - 2 whole eggs
> - 3 egg yolks
> - Touch of olive oil

## Sauce
>
> - 9 lasagna noodles
> - 1 pound (450g) ground beef
> - 3/4 pound (340g) ground pork 
> - 2 tablespoons (30g) vegetable oil
> - 1 yellow onion, finely diced
> - 5 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
> - 2 teaspoons (3g) finely chopped thyme
> - 2 teaspoons fennel seeds (4g), finely ground 
> - Salt and pepper to taste 
> - 1 (28oz) can crushed tomatoes 
> - 1( (6oz) can tomato paste (.70 cents))
> - Water if needed 

## For the cheese sauce
>
> - 3 tbsp Butter
> - 3 tbsp Flour
> - 1-2 cups Milk
> - 15 oz (425g)  tub ricotta 
> - 1 egg
> - 8 oz (225g) mozzarella 
> - 1/3 cup parmesan cheese



## Method

### Homemade Pasta Method:

1. Add the flour to a large bowl. Create a well in the center of the flour.

2. To the well, add in 3 egg yolks and 2 whole eggs. Whisk together using a fork. 

3. While whisking, slowly incorporate the flour into the eggs until a shaggy dough forms. 

4. Pour onto a work surface and begin kneading by hand until smooth. 

5. Wrap in plastic wrap and rest for 30 minutes. 

6. Divide the dough into 4 equal portions. Shape into an oval and roll it out just under ½-inch thick.

7. Run through a pasta roller starting with the widest setting working towards the number 4 setting until the dough is ⅛-inch thick. Repeat with remaining pieces of dough. 

8. Cut to line-up with a 9x13 pan then cut in half lengthwise. Should have 10-12 sheets.


### Sauce Method:

1. In a dutch oven or heavy pot, heat the oil over medium-high heat until ripping hot. 

2. Add in the ground meat and sear for 3-4 minutes, flip and repeat on the other side for 2-3 minutes. Mash all the meat together using a potato masher until fine. Transfer to a separate container. 

3. Add more oil to the pot if needed, add in the finely sliced garlic, and reduce heat to medium. Stirring occasionally until the garlic begins to toast.

4. Add in diced yellow onion, season to taste with salt stirring together, and saute until the onions turn translucent. 

5. Once the onions are translucent, add in fennel powder and stir together. Saute for 30 seconds. 

6. Add the tomato paste and stir together. Saute until it has caramelized and sticks to the bottom of the pan.

7. Stir in a can of crushed tomatoes then add the meat back to the pot and stir until incorporated. 

8. Simmer and reduce for 5-7 minutes or until slightly thickened. Season to taste with salt and pepper.


### Cheese Mixture Method:

1. Melt the butter

2. Whisk in the flour and cook for a minute then slowly whisk in the milk. Allow the sauce to simmer, whisking regularly, until the sauce is thick and smooth (approximately 5-7 minutes).

3. Remove from the heat then stir in the cheeses. Season with salt and pepper. 


### Assembly Method:

1. Mix grated mozzarella and parmesan cheese in a small bowl. 

2. Preheat the oven to 170 fan. 

3. In a 9x13 add 1 cup sauce, top with 3 noodles, layer 1/3 of cheese mix, another cup of meat sauce, repeat two more times, finish with 3 more noodles on top with more sauce on top and cheese.

4. Cover with foil that’s been sprayed with oil, and bake for 25 minutes covered, uncover and bake for 25 more minutes.

5. Cool for 15 minutes. Cut and serve.


[Original Recipe][original-recipe].

[original-recipe]: https://www.joshuaweissman.com/post/1-dollar-lasagna-but-cheaper