---
layout: post
title:  "Bulgogi"
date:   2024-05-11 09:41:59 +0000
categories: dinner
---
> ## Ingredients
>

## Sauce
>
> - 2 green onions
> - 1/2 yellow onion
> - 2 shiitake mushrooms (or button mushrooms), about 1.8 oz (50g) in total
> - 1 green chili (optional)
> - 1 mild red chili (or bell pepper) (optional), for color
> - 1.3 lb (600g) ground beef
> - 2 tbsp neutral-tasting oil
> - 1/2 tbsp toasted sesame oil
> - 5 cups hot rice, 1 cup (210g) for each serving
> - Generous pinch of toasted sesame seeds, to garnish


## Bulgogi Marinade
>
> - 3 tbsp soy sauce
> - 2 tbsp sugar
> - 2 tbsp mirin
> - 2.5 tbsp oyster sauce
> - 2 tbsp minced garlic
> - 1 tbsp toasted sesame oil
> - Black pepper, to taste
> - Small pinch of MSG




## Method

### Prep Vegetables:

1. Thinly slice the green onions, separating the whites and greens.

2. Finely dice half an onion and mushrooms. Thinly slice the chilies (if using). 


### Make Marinade:

1. In a small container, mix together the soy sauce, sugar, mirin, oyster sauce, minced garlic, sesame oil, black pepper to taste, and a pinch of MSG (if using).

2. To a large mixing bowl, add the ground beef, mushrooms, and marinade. Give it a good mix. 


### Cook:

1. In a wok (or pan), heat the oil (2 tbsp) over medium-high heat. Once it gets nice and hot, add the white parts of the green onions and onion. Saute for 3 minutes or until they start to go brown. 

2. Add the beef mixture and cook for 7 to 8 minutes or until most of the liquid has evaporated. Make sure to break up the beef and keep stirring it. 

3. Turn the heat off. Add the chili peppers (if using), green onions, and sesame oil (1/2 tbsp). Give it a final mix.

4. To serve, divide the rice into serving bowls and top with bulgogi. Garnish with some extra green onions and sesame seeds. Serve with salad greens or kimchi. Enjoy~!


[Original Recipe][original-recipe].

[original-recipe]: https://aaronandclaire.com/ground-beef-bulgogi/#wpzoom-recipe-card